---
layout: page
title: Adaptable adapte
---

# Introduction

The issue of energy conversion is the subject of historical debate.
Without going back to its roots, let us mention the work initiated by
Glansdorf and Prigogine, which placed at the centre the question of
entropy production in out-of-equilibrium systems, an issue that is still
largely relevant(Kondepudi and Kapcha 2008; Jr 2008). This debate is
itself part of an even broader debate that questions the operating
points of the systems, considering mainly the maximization of entropy
production (MEP), its minimization (mEP), or power maximization
(MPP)(Martyushev and Seleznev 2006; Klein and Meijer 1954). One of the
reasons why these questions do not find a general consensus today is
that they are most often considered on very different systems, in
particular in the definition of the boundary conditions of the device
with its environment, considered immutable. The case of idealized
mechanical systems is, from this point of view, much simpler, since,
broadly speaking, the absence of any friction process means that the
system interacts with its environment via a very limited number of
degrees of freedom, which makes variational approaches relevant. On the
contrary, it has long been accepted that there is no variational
principle that governs the out-of-equilibrium steady state of a
thermodynamic system (Lebon, Jou, and Casas-Vázquez 2008). This can be
understood as an impossibility to establish a variational principle when
the number of degrees of freedom diverges, which is obviously the case
when the system is connected to a thermostat, and when dissipative
processes occur. However, it is equally obvious that many
out-of-equilibrium systems are perfectly deterministic in their
evolution, and have a perfectly defined stationary state, as is the
case, for example, of Kirchoff’s networks in electrokinetics. As a
result, these systems, although not governed by a Lagrangian form and an
associated variational principle, have a completely established
stationary operating point, without any possible affirmation of an
unerlying mimization or maximization of the production of the entropy or
the power.  
These questions of power and finite time performance have been the
subject of much work,(Massimiliano Esposito, Lindenberg, and Van den
Broeck 2009) particularly in thermoelectricity, **(VanDenBroeck dans
esposito thermoelectric 2009)** (M. Esposito, Lindenberg, and Broeck
2009; Balachandran, Benenti, and Casati 2013; Benenti, Ouerdane, and
Goupil 2016; Apertet et al. 2012). **pas trouve Schmiedel** Without
entering into these debates again, we propose an approach that provides
a fairly generic framework for describing a complete thermodynamic
system with perfectly established boundary conditions. In this article,
we will limit ourselves to the case of locally linear machines,
subscribing to Onsager’s formalism. This formalism, based on the concept
of local equilibrium, makes it possible to consider the thermodynamic
potentials of the system, which are the intensive parameters. As a
result, it becomes possible to derive a thermodynamics close to
equilibrium, with in particular, a rigorous choice of potentials that
allow to obtain the symmetry of the out-of-diagonal coefficients of the
Onsager matrix. The stationary nature also requires that kinetic
coefficients and boundary conditions of the system be constant or slowly
variable compared to the characteristic relaxation time of entropy
production and dissipation diffusion, thus guaranteeing both stationary
processes and local equilibrium.  
In this article we consider the transport of energy and matter within a
system, where the thermodynamic conversion is produced by coupling the
energy and matter currents. By applying the first law of thermodynamics,
both of these currents are conservative. By applying the second law, the
energy, and sometimes the matter, used during the conversion process is
subject to dispersion in the degrees of freedom accessible to the
system. As a result, thermodynamics is based on both a quantity and a
quality principles. Since the loss of quality is directly related to
dispersion in the degrees of freedom , the search for processes to
reduce their number has always been a guideline. It should be noted that
in the case of non-spontaneous processes, it is possible to consider a
reduction in the degrees of freedom , but this operation requires the
implementation of external processes. These processes offer other
opportunities for energy dispersion, in greater proportions than those
gained within the system. As a result, any physical process taking place
over a finite period of time is the location of a compromise between the
total energy used to carry out a process and the energy actually
converted for the needs to be covered. The process efficiency is
therefore written as the ratio between the actually converted energy and
the total energy supplied. We propose to consider energy conversion
processes in a very generic form, in order to establish their main
characteristics and constraints. In particular, we address the question
of power and entropy production, insisting on the compromises they
impose.  
The question of adapting a device to the uses assigned to it then
arises. In the case of single working point, the system may  be designed
to be as much adapted as is it possible. But this single operating
working point is a rare configuration, and realistic system are asked to
work in a given range of working points. Then arises the concept of
adaptability, or flexibility, which enters into competition with the
previous adapted concept. This problem of adaptation or adaptability
concerns all thermodynamic systems, including, of course, living
systems. Indeed, as soon as we define an envelope, we delimit the
boundaries of a space occupied by a given device, and the interactions
of this device with the outside world. Considering the energy and matter
budget at the borders of the device, we then characterize the
relationship between the device and its environment. Since the processes
take place over a finite period of time, it is important to consider an
out-of-equilibrium description. In this paper, we consider an
out-of-equilibrium thermodynamic description, driven by locally linear
equations. We show that the intrinsic characteristics of the device, on
the one hand, and the boundary conditions, on the other hand, totally
determine the behavior of the system. It appears that the allocation of
dissipation largely determines the possible ranges of use of an
out-of-equilibrium thermodynamic system.  
In terms of boundary conditions, we show that the real coupling
conditions of a system with its environment are always located between
the Dirichlet and Neumann boundaries, also called "stock" and "flow"
boundary conditions. It should be noted that both pure stock and flow
are extreme boundary conditions which can never being strictly reached.
Between adaptable and adapted, the performances of thermodynamic systems
are therefore the result of a compromise between intrinsic performance
of a device, and the coupling to the environment. This question of
coupling to the environment is the subject of the first section of this
article. In the following section we describe the envisaged system in
its most general form. The third section concerns the descriptions of
the device at the heart of the system, while the fourth section
describes its insertion into the complete system. The fifth section
considers the different configurations that such a global system may
encounter, and the consequences on the production of power, dissipation,
and more generally, entropy. The article ends with concluding remarks.

# System description

## Boundary conditions

As indicated above, the system is composed of two sub-parts: a central
zone, which we will call the device, and which is the place of
thermodynamic conversion, on the one hand, and the boundary conditions,
consisting of the source, and on the other hand, the sink and the
elements connecting it to the device. These elements allow to modify at
will the boundary conditions that condition the coupling of the device
with the source and the sink, which is a central question for the
optimization. Among the latter we can distinguish systems whose
intrinsic parameters are constant, as is the case for most machines, and
systems, whose intrinsic parameters are subject to modification, as is
the case for living or societal systems. These latter are subject to
potential developments and evolution, which are not possible for the
above-mentioned machines. By potential development we consider the case
of living systems, societies or organisms, which can, under conditions
of energy and matter supply, develop, maintain or regress.  
In the case of systems under Neumann boundary conditions, the system is
somehow fed by a constant current of energy and/or matter, which
guarantees the maintenance of the system as much as it constrains its
development. Under such conditions, the possible development of the
system is limited by the value of the current of matter and/or energy.
In the case of Dirichlet systems, there are no restrictions on access to
the resource, except for the intrinsic limitations of the conversion
device. As a result, the currents of energy and matter may diverge
completely, if the characteristics of the device lend themselves to it.
The same reasoning applies to the production and rejection of waste to
the sink. Access to the resource and waste production are therefore both
dependent on these boundary conditions. Let us consider, as an
historical illustration, the situation of the industrial revolution,
which saw the rise of the use of fossil energy. The latter are by
definition stock resources that lead the human societies to find
themselves in Dirichlet conditions, as far as access to the resource is
concerned. Concerning the waste rejected to the sink, the Dirichlet’s
condition has been the norm, as long as the planet has been considered a
bottomless sink. On the other hand, if we consider the situation before
the industrial revolution, it can be noted that the main resource for
development, which is the food resource, was dependent on Neumann-type
boundary conditions, due to the subjection to solar flux. Without going
further into this illustration, which is beyond the scope of this
article, we can nevertheless observe the importance of boundary
conditions, both on the functioning of systems, but also for their
possible evolutions. Indeed, in the case of boundary conditions of the
Neumann type, there is no possibility of development, in the sense of
increasing the current of energy and matter that feed the conversion
device. Consequently, there is no possibility of any increase of the
quantities. On the other hand there are possiblities of increase of the
quality, because the conditions of coupling between energy and matter
may change, as the history of the life proved it.  
On the other hand, in the case of Dirichlet boundary conditions, there
is no limit to the increase in energy and matter currents, which could
lead to their possible divergence. It should be noted that the actual
Dirichlet conditions for the access to the energy for the human species
is quite singular in the history of the living systems. In order to
remain explicit and relatively simple to address, these questions need
to be modeled in the most compact form possible. That why we propose to
describe a generic thermodynamic machine in order to guarantee a general
character to the developments of this article. Many extensions and
refinements can be added, as for previous systems in the literature
(Cite Appertet... Van der Broeck...).

## Thermodynamic device

The proposed thermodynamic system is described in Figure
[\[Image1\]](#Image1) . It consists of a reservoir providing the
resource and a sink receiving the waste, with the respective potentials
\(\Pi_{1}^{R}\) and \(\Pi_{1}^{S}\) fixed at constant values. Between
this two reservoirs is the energy conversion device which is the place
of coupling between a current of matter \(I_{2}\), and a current of
energy \(I_{E}\). The energy current entering the system is associated
with an incoming entropy current, \(I_{1}\), with \(\Pi_{1}\) its
conjugated potential. In the case of a thermal system of heat current
\(I_{Q}\), temperature \(T\) and entropy current \(I_{S}\), we would
simply have \(\Pi_{1}I_{1}=I_{Q}=TI_{S}\) so \(I_{1}\) would be the
classical entropy current. The current of matter is defined by \(I_{2}\)
and its conjugated potential \(\Pi_{2}\). The energy currents budget
finally writes \(I_{E}=\Pi_{1}I_{1}+\Pi_{2}I_{2}\). We recognize the
fractions of dispersed energy, \(\Pi_{1}I_{1}\), and concentrated
energy, \(\Pi_{2}I_{2}\), which are a generalization of the notions of
heat and work extended to the case of non-thermal systems (Kedem and
Caplan 1965). The coupling term between energy and matter is defined,
under \(I_{2}=0\) condition, as \(\alpha=-(\delta\Pi
_{2}/\delta\Pi_{1})_{I_{2}}\). The geometry of the system is given by
its length \(L\) and its cross-section \(A\). The two currents of energy
and matter are then associated with two conductivities \(\sigma_{1}\)
and \(\sigma_{2}\), which, at the integrated scale, behave like two
resistive dipoles \(R_{1/2}=\frac{1}{\sigma_{1/2}}\frac{L}{A}\). The
connection of the conversion zone with the two reservoirs is defined by
the coupling resistors \(R_{+}\) and \(R_{-}\) which allow the boundary
conditions to be set, at will, between Dirichlet conditions
\((R_{+}=R_{-}=0)\), or Neumann conditions, where \(R_{+}\) and
\(R_{+}\) diverge. This type of configuration is not in itself new, and
has already been used in specific systems **je vois pas: Goupil2016**
(Goupil et al. 2019). In particular, it has been shown that, under these
conditions, the way the system operates is partially governed by the
feedback effects induced by boundary conditions. Some of these feedbacks
can lead to the presence of oscillations which, in the presence of
stable boundary conditions, present some resiliency **StephanFauve**. It
should be noted that these oscillations do not violate the first
principle in that they are not self-sufficient, at least from an energy
point of view. They do not violate the second principle either, since
these structures are highly dissipative and are only maintained by a
continuous supply of energy. It can also be noted that the incoming
current of energy is used to produce a potential difference which, if
maintained, allows the circulation of the matter under the action of the
thermodynamic force, which is defined from the gradient of the
potential. This type of analysis of thermodynamic conversion has been
used with success by Alicki in various systems(Alicki,
Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, and Jenkins 2017; Alicki et al. 2004). This
description of two coupled currents can, of course, be extended to a
larger number of coupled currents without changing the spirit of the
study.

![Schematic view of the generic system. There is a reservoir and a sink,
whose potential \(\Pi_{1}^{+}\) and \(\Pi_{1}^{-}\) are constant. The
coupling of the conversion zone (circle) with the reservoir and the sink
is ensured by the elements \(R_{+}\) and \(R_{-}\). As a result, the
difference in potential \(\Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\) and less than that
between reservoir and sink. The internal resistance
\(R_2=\frac{L}{A\sigma2}\) gives rise to a dissipative contribution
\(R_2I_{2}^2\). The \(R_L\) resistance is the output load, and the
output power is
\(P_{out}=R_L I_{2}^2\).<span label="Figure1"></span>](setup-2.eps)

As it is represented, the system is therefore quite generic. The main
determinants of functioning are thus summarized by three terms, the
capture of the resource, its conversion into a usable form, and the
rejection of waste. It is clear that ideally the target is the one where
the output power would be maximum and the amount of energy released
would be minimal.. The study of the limits to achieving this target is
one of the objectives of this article. As the coupling parameter for the
conversion, the \(\alpha\) parameter is therefore central since it
determines the system’s ability to convert energy into a usable form. As
we will see, a naive picture suggesting that the largest possible
\(\alpha\) value necessarily leads to the most efficient system, which
is not always accurate.

# Local energy conversion

## Presentation

At the local level, energy conversion is produced by coupling the energy
and matter currents flowing through the device. These currents are
generated by the presence of differences between the two thermodynamic
potentials \(\Pi_{1}\) and \(\Pi_{2}\). This local modeling is therefore
based on the three parameters of conductivity associated with energy
transport, \(\sigma_{1}\) conductivity associated with matter transport,
\(\sigma_{2}\), and the coupling coefficient between the gradients of
the two potentials, \(\alpha\) We deduce from this the formulation of
local Onsager matrix, where \(\nabla=\frac{d}dx{}\) is the spatial
gradient, here reduced to \(1D\) in order to simplify the description.
\[\left(
\begin{array}
[c]{c}%
J_{2}\\
J_{E}%
\end{array}
\right)  =\left(
\begin{array}
[c]{cc}%
L_{11} & L_{12}\\
L_{21} & L_{22}%
\end{array}
\right)  \left(
\begin{array}
[c]{c}%
-\nabla\left(  \frac{\Pi_{2}}{\Pi_{1}}\right)  \\
\nabla (\frac{1}{\Pi_{1}})
\end{array}
\right)  \label{LMJem}%\] \(J_{E}\) and \(J_{2}\) are the densities of
the two currents, and are extensive and conservative quantities. Given
the differential form \(J_{E}=\Pi_{1}%
J_{1}+\Pi_{2}J_{2}\), with the equality of non-diagonal terms
\(L_{12}=L_{21}%\)(<span class="citeproc-not-found" data-reference-id="onsager_reciprocal_1931_1">**???**</span>;
<span class="citeproc-not-found" data-reference-id="onsager_reciprocal_1931_2">**???**</span>)
according to the choice of the correct potentials
\(-\frac{\Pi_{2}}{\Pi_{1}}\) and \(\frac{1}{\Pi_{1}}\) . The four terms
of the matrix are therefore reduced to three, \(\sigma_{1}\),
\(\sigma_{2}\)and \(\alpha\), whose correspondences with the
coefficients \(L_{ij}\) are, \[\begin{aligned}
\sigma_{1} &  =\frac{1}{\Pi_{1}^{2}}\left[  \frac{L_{11}L_{22}-L_{21}L_{12}%
}{L_{11}}\right]  \label{sigma}\\
\sigma_{2} &  =\frac{L_{11}}{\Pi_{2}}\\
\alpha &  =-\frac{\Delta\Pi_{2}}{\Delta\Pi_{1}}=\frac{1}{\Pi_{1}}\frac{L_{12}%
}{L_{11}}%\end{aligned}\]

In the absence of a matter gradient, the conductivity can be defined as
\(\sigma_{\Pi_{2}}=\sigma_{1}\left[  1+\alpha^{2}\sigma_{2}/\sigma_{1}\Pi
_{2}\right]\). The figure of merit is then defined as
\[F_{m}=\frac{\alpha^{2}R_{1}}{R_{2}}\Pi_{2}=\frac{L_{12}^{2}}{L_{11}%
    L_{22}-L_{21}L_{12}}\label{Merit}%\] It is known that the ratio
\(\sigma_{2}/\sigma_{1}\), therefore \(F_{m}\), is a direct measure of
the intrinsic capacity of energy conversion. \(F_{m}\) can be related to
the ratio of the equivalent specific heats by the expression
\(\gamma=\frac{C_{\Pi_{2}}}{C_{I_{2}}}=F_{m}+1\). In their seminal
paper, Kedem and Caplan derived the following expression of the coupling
parameter between the two fluxes involved in the conversion process
(Kedem and Caplan 1965):
\[q=\frac{L_{12}}{\sqrt{L_{11}L_{22}}}=\sqrt{\frac{F_{m}}{1+F_{m}}}\label{qqq}%\]
an expression that explicitly includes the kinetic coefficients
<span>\(L_{ij}\)</span>. The figure of merit and the coupling factor
\(q\) are equivalent in terms of measure of the system performance: the
larger their (absolute) values, the better the energy conversion system.
This can be evidenced by the derivation of the local maximal efficiency
of the conversion process in generator mode, \(\eta_{\mathrm{max}}\):
\[\eta_{\mathrm{max}}=\left(  \frac{1+\sqrt{1-q^{2}}}{q}\right)  ^{2}%
=\frac{\sqrt{\gamma}-1}{\sqrt{\gamma}+1}%\]

## Entropy production and efficiency

The volumetric entropy production rate is given by the summation of the
force-flow products,

\[\overset{.}{S}=J_{2} \nabla \left(  -\frac{\Pi_{2}}{\Pi_{1}%
}\right)  +J_{E} \nabla \left(  \frac{1}{\Pi_{1}}\right)  =-\frac
{1}{\Pi_{1}}\left[  J_{2}\nabla\Pi_{2}+J_{1}\nabla\Pi_{1}\right]\]

In the case of a reversible process \(\overset{.}{S}=0\ \) so does
\(J_{2}\nabla\Pi_{2}+J_{1}\nabla\Pi_{1}\). We get
\(-\frac{J_{2}\nabla\Pi_{2}%
}{\Pi_{1}J_{1}}=\frac{\nabla\Pi_{1}}{\Pi_{1}}=\eta_{C}\), where
\(\eta_{C}\) is the Carnot efficiency. This leads to the general
expression of the local efficiency,
\[\eta=-\frac{J_{2}\nabla\Pi_{2}}{J_{1}\Pi_{1}}<\eta_{C}%\]

We define the reduced current as \[j=\frac{\alpha J_{2}}{J_{1}}%\]

which is the ratio between the entropy carried by the transport of the
matter, divided by the total entropy transported.  In the case of a
reversible process, both terms are equal so \(j=1\)
**EntropieParPorteur**. There is three regions in the \(\eta(j)\) plot.
For \(0<j<1\) the device works as a generator. For \(j<0\) and \(j>1\)
the device works as a receptor. For reasons of brevity, we will mainly
deal with the generator configuration in this article.

Rewriting the Onsager matrix in more suitable form(Goupil et al. 2011)
we get, \[\left(
\begin{array}
[c]{c}%
J_{2}\\
\Pi_{1}J_{1}%
\end{array}
\right)  =\left(
\begin{array}
[c]{cc}%
\sigma_{2} & \alpha\sigma_{2}\\
\alpha\Pi_{1}\sigma_{2} & \gamma\sigma_{1}%
\end{array}
\right)  \left(
\begin{array}
[c]{c}%
-\nabla\Pi_{2}\\
-\nabla\Pi_{1}%
\end{array}
\right)\]

then,
\[j=\frac{\eta\alpha\Pi_{1}\sigma_{2}-j\alpha\sigma_{2}\nabla\Pi_{1}}{\eta
    \alpha\Pi_{1}\sigma_{2}-\frac{j\gamma\sigma_{1}}{\alpha}\frac{\nabla\Pi_{1}%
    }{\Pi_{1}}}%\]

so,
\[\eta=\eta_{C}j\frac{j\gamma-\frac{\alpha^{2}\sigma_{2}}{\sigma_{1}}\Pi_{1}%
}{j\frac{\alpha^{2}\sigma_{2}}{\sigma_{1}}\Pi_{1}-\frac{\alpha^{2}\sigma_{2}%
    }{\sigma_{1}}\Pi_{1}}%\]

where \(\gamma=\frac{\alpha^{2}\sigma_{2}}{\sigma_{1}}\Pi_{1}+1\). After
few algebra we get,

\[\eta=\frac{\eta_{C}}{\left(  \gamma-1\right)  }\frac{\gamma j^{2}-\left(
    \gamma-1\right)  j}{j-1}%\]

\(\eta\) present a maximum for \(j_{opt}=1+\sqrt{\frac{1}{\gamma}}\) for
a receptor mode, and \(j_{opt}=1-\sqrt{\frac{1}{\gamma}}\) for a
generator mode. Both optima reduce to \(j=1\) in the ideal case, when
\(\gamma\) diverges, where we recover the Carnot efficiency. In this
diverging case, the system do not present anymore dissipation
production, and the equivalence between the receptor and generator modes
is a proof of the absence of causality of the Carnot configuration. This
absence of causality is another name for reversibility. We then recover
the Kedem-Caplan expression of the maximal efficiency,
\(\eta_{\max}=\eta_{C}%
\frac{\sqrt{\gamma}-1}{\sqrt{\gamma}+1}\) for the generator mode and
\(\eta_{\max}=\eta_{C}%
\frac{\sqrt{\gamma}+1}{\sqrt{\gamma}-1}\) for the receptor mode. Let us
now plot the efficiency versus the reduced current.

![ Normalized efficiency \(\frac{\eta}{\eta_C}\) according to operating
point \(j\) with \(\gamma=2\) (red, dot dashed), 4 (green, dots), 8
(blue, loosely dashed), 20 (cyan, dashed), \(2 \times 10^2\) (magenta,
dot dashed) in main figure, and \(\gamma=2 \times 10^2\) (magenta, dot
dashed), \(2 \times 10^3\) (black, dot dashed), \(2 \times 10^4\) (red,
dot dot dashed) in inset. The curves are given for the increasing values
of the figure of merit. The lower part corresponds to the pump mode and
the upper part to the generator mode. Note that the figure is
symmetrical with respect to the Carnot point (blue star). Grey area
corresponds to the receptor mode (resp. generator mode). This singular
point defines the reversible configuration, where causality is
broken.<span label="figure1"></span>](KedemCaplan.png)

As expected the maximum performance achieved, \(\eta_{max}\) is an
increasing function of the figure of merit. On the other hand, it also
appears that the sensitivity to fluctuations in \(j\) becomes all the
more important as \(\eta
_{max}\) is important. This is confirmed by estimating the value of the
slope in the vicinity of the maximum yield, which is
\(\partial\eta/\partial
(j)\approx-2\eta_{\max}F_{m}\). The larger the figure of merit, the
steeper the slope. This local description allows us to conclude that the
performance of the device is obtained at the cost of a constraint of
stability of the operating points, directly driven by the value of the
figure of merit. As an intrinsic quantity, the figure of merit defines
the performance ceiling beyond which it cannot be exceeded. It is clear
from the figure that the system defined by a high figure of merit
exceeds in performance all the systems of lower figure of merit value.
However, this result is strongly weighted by the fact that for
excursions of \(j\) around the optimal value, the efficiency falls
rapidly. Then it is not necessarily relevant to look for a device with a
large figure of merit, without first inventorying the operating range
that will be brought to run this device. For simplicity’s sake we have
only dealt here with the case where the system works as a generator,
which is obtained by \(0<j<1\). It is clear that the same study can be
carried out for the case where the system operates as a receptor,
instead of working as a generator. This situation, well known for
thermal machines, corresponds to heat pump operation. More broadly, and
in the case of non-thermal machines, this case actually corresponds to
the operation in recycling mode where the treated quantity undergoes
regeneration. It should be noted that the expression of performance
refers only to \(\gamma\), and therefore to the figure of merit, without
specifying any contribution from \(\sigma_{1}\), \(\sigma_{2}\) and
\(\alpha\) respectively. The local level is totally blind to these
issues so we now consider the situation of the entire system to see the
relative contributions.

# Global conversion system

## Presentation

In accordance with the diagram in Figure [1](#Figure1), the device of
the conversion zone is connected to its reservoirs via the two resistors
\(R_{+}\) and \(R_{-}\), which makes it possible to explore all boundary
conditions. The presence of these resistors may lead to the pinching of
the potential difference \(\Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\) according to the
system operating point. More precisely, \(R_{+}\) governs the limitation
of access to the resource while \(R_{-}\) reflects possible saturation
effects of waste disposal. This global model, although limited, makes it
possible to approach the behavior of many systems, including living
systems, depending on whether the resource is abundant or scarce, and
whether waste disposal, including thermal waste, is easy or not. Living
system and non-living systems differ from the fact that the energy
current is never zero in living systems, so \(R_{1}\) is always finite,
and there is a non zero resting point. On the contrary, non-living
system may have a zero resting point, with zero energy current, so
\(R_{1}\) may be infinite in these systems. Let us consider the set of
the four equations that govern the functioning of the system (see
Appendix [8](#Appendix1)).

\[\begin{aligned}
I_{E-} &  =\alpha\Pi_{1}^{-}I_{2}+\left(  1-\varphi\right)  R_{2}I_{2}%
^{2}+\frac{\left(  \Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\right)  }{R_{1}}\\
I_{E-} &  =\frac{(\Pi_{1}^{-}-\Pi_{1}^{S})}{R_{-}}\\
I_{E+} &  =\alpha\Pi_{1}^{+}I_{2}-\varphi R_{2}I_{2}^{2}+\frac{\left(  \Pi
    _{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\right)  }{R_{1}}\\
I_{E+} &  =\frac{(\Pi_{1}^{R}-\Pi_{1}^{+})}{R_{+}}%\end{aligned}\]

These equations have their origin in the integration of the local form
described in the previous paragraph. These developments have been the
subject of previous
articles(<span class="citeproc-not-found" data-reference-id="apertet_from_2013">**???**</span>),
(Goupil et al. 2019), (Apertet et al. 2012), **SchmidielEtc**, and will
not be re-described here. \(\varphi\) controls the dissipation fraction
that returned to the source or to the sink. In the following we will
choose \(\varphi =0\).

## Devices with zero resting point

First of all, we consider that \(R_{2}=0\) and \(R_{1}\) diverge, in
order to separate the contributions of entropy production and internal
dissipation. \(R_{2}\) governs the current of matter, so we therefore
consider that this current is not, a priori, limited, so there is no
intrinsic dissipation within the device. The figure of merit of the
device is then infinite and we may expect to reach the ideal conditions
and the Carnot efficiency. But the classical discussion around the
Carnot efficiency is based on pure Dirichlet boundary conditions, which
is clearly not the case here, so we have to consider the new conditions
introduced by the modification of the boundary conditions. In the
present configuration of zero resting point systems the general
equations (see Appendix [8](#Appendix1)) can be summarized as,

\[\begin{aligned}
I_{E-}  &  =\frac{\Pi_{1}^{S}I_{2}}{\frac{1}{\alpha}-R_{-}I_{2}}\\
I_{E+}  &  =\frac{\Pi_{1}^{R}I_{2}}{R_{+}I_{2}+\frac{1}{\alpha}}%\end{aligned}\]

with the output power given by \(P=I_{E+}-I_{E-}\).

![Different representations of the powers \(I_{E+}\), \(I_{E-}\) and
\(P\), with \(R^{-1}_{1}=0\), \(R_{2}=0\), \(R_{+}
        =R_{-}=2\), \(Pi_{1}^{S}=1\), \(Pi_{1}^{R}=30\). Figure \((a)\)
shows efficiencies (resp. in red and green)
\(\eta_{+/-} = P /I_{2_{+/-}}\) in function of \(I_2\) the current of
matter. Figure \((b)\) is the efficiency in function of the power
produced \(P\). Figure \((c)\) show the power (resp. in red, green and
black) \(I_{E+}\), \(I_{E-}\) and \(P\) in function of \(I_2\). Figure
\((d)\) shows (resp. in red, green and black)
\(COE_{+/-}=I_{E_{+/-}}/I_2\) and \(COE_{P}=P/I_2\) in function of
\(I_2\). Dotted lines are \(\alpha=0.9\), solid lines are \(\alpha=1\),
dashed lines are \(\alpha=1.1\). In \((c)\) and \((d)\) cyan stars show
short circuit situations \(I_{2sc}\), yellow circles are critical points
\(I_{2cp}\). In \((b)\) vertical and horizontal red lines are
respectively maximal efficiency and maximal power.](Puissances_2.pdf)

<span id="fig:no_rest" label="fig:no_rest">\[fig:no\_rest\]</span>

The plots in figure [\[fig:no\_rest\]](#fig:no_rest) summarize the
behavior of the global system. The output power presents a maximum and
two zero values. The first value corresponds to the case where the
efficiency reaches its maximum. This situation is obtained for
\(I_{2}=0\), so \(I_{E-}=I_{E+}=P=0\). This means that no matter, nor
energy, can flow through the system, which is a totally useless
situation for a physical system. The second zero power value is reached
for a current of matter \(I_{2_{sc}}\), named the short-circuit current,
by analogy with electrokinetics. In this situation the produced power is
completely re-dissipated inside the system. \(I_{2_{sc}}\) is therefore
an ultimate operating point for the system, working as an energy
generator. For a truly efficient operation it is therefore necessary to
try to push \(I_{2_{sc}}\) to large values, which is obtained by getting
as close as possible to Dirichlet conditions. In the general case the
approximate expression of this current is,
\[I_{2sc}\approx\frac{1}{\alpha}\frac{\Delta\Pi_{1}}{R_{-}\Pi_{1}^{S}+R_{+}%
    \Pi_{1}^{R}}%\] which confirms that Dirichlet’s conditions where
\(R_{-}=R_{+}\approx0\) are to be sought, if accessible. Since the
resting point here is zero, the power curve necessarily intercepts that
of \(I_{E-}\). Beyond this interception point the system is in a
situation where it releases more waste than it produces output power. We
call *critical point* the point where \(P=I_{E-}\). The fact that power
is not a monotonous function of \(I_{2}\) is actually quite unexpected
because, to the extent that \(R_{2}=0\), the total absence of intrinsic
viscosity should not lead to any limit to \(I_{2}\). However, if we
carry out a development at the first order of the expression of power we
find
\[P\approx\left[  \alpha\Delta\Pi_{1}-\left(  \Pi_{1}^{R}R_{+}+\Pi_{1}^{S}%
R_{-}\right)  \alpha^{2}I_{2}\right]  I_{2}%\]

which clearly indicates the presence of a viscous friction term
\(R_{fb}\),
\[R_{fb}\approx\alpha^{2}(\Pi_{1}^{R}R_{+}+\Pi_{1}^{S}R_{-})\] which
reduces the transport of the matter, even though the intrinsic
viscosity, associated with the transport of the substance, is zero. This
additional dissipation is a pure feedback effect that is due to the
presence of conditions at the general limits where \(R_{+}\)et \(R_{-}\)
are non-zero. This additional dissipation can only be rendered null if
\(R_{+}=R_{-}=0\), i. e. a strict Dirichlet condition, which is, in
reality, only very rarely observed. Note that the condition \(\alpha=0\)
leads to the same result but it is useless because in this case the
transport of energy and matter are fully decoupled, and the device does
not convert the energy anymore. The conditions \(R_{2}=0\) and
\(R_{1}\rightarrow\infty\) determine the performance envelope for a
system with an ideal conversion zone. In particular, it is noted that,
although \(I_{E+}\) and \(I_{E-}\) are increasing functions of the
current of matter \(I_{2}\), the growth rate of the energy waste current
\(I_{E-}\) always ends up reaching that of the energy current \(I_{E+}\)
supplied to the system. Also, even in the case of a system whose core is
composed of an ideal device, \((R_{2}=0,R_{1}\rightarrow\infty)\), the
increase in the current of matter inexorably leads to an increase in the
current of waste in larger proportions to the rate of supply of
resources. The only way out is to limit the current of matter to values
below a threshold, which may be that of maximum power, maximum
efficiency, minimum waste generation, or below the critical point. In
the figure [\[WithoutRepos\]](#WithoutRepos), the response is given for
two different values of the coupling parameter \(\alpha\).\(\ \)The
influence of \(\alpha\) is quite surprising. At first we observe that
the lower is \(\alpha\) and the lower are the output power and
efficiencies, as expected for a lower conversion level of the energy.
But in the same time, the short-circuit current is strongly enhanced,
opening the way to a large range of \(I_{2}\) working points for the
transport of the matter. This leads to the conclusion that *the search
for a very efficient system is not compatible with the search for a very
adaptable system.*  
Let us now focus on the issue of the trade-off between power efficiency
and waste generation. The figure
[\[SansReposEnergie\]](#SansReposEnergie) represents the curves of the
production efficiency \(\eta_{prod}=P/I_{E+}\) and the waste efficiency
\(\eta_{waste}=P/I_{E-}\).  Note that \(\eta_{prod}\) , which is the
traditional efficiency, is limited by the Carnot efficiency but
\(\eta_{waste}\) is not, since it does not refer to the traditional
expression of efficiency but is just an extension of the notations.
\(\eta_{prod}\) is bounded by a zero value, which corresponds to zero
power, and a maximum efficiency point. Between these two values, the
system presents a maximum of the power, which absolutely does not
coincide with the maximum efficiency. In this configuration the MPP or
mEP operations are clearly disjointed as already mentioned (Novikov
1958; Curzon and Ahlborn 1975). Let us now consider the cost of carrying
out a unitary process. By unitary process we consider a process
standardized by the value of the associated transport of matter, i.e.
the ratio between the energy currents and the matter current. This
quantity, called Cost Of Energy COE, makes it possible to consider
energy expenditures with regard to the associated matter transformation
along a unitary displacements. In other words, COE can measure the
amount of energy needed to be rejected as a waste, for displacing the
matter from a unit length. This quantity is already known in biology as
Cost Of Oxygen Transport (COT), where it has made it possible to qualify
a unit displacement with regard to the energy released in the form of
waste **COT**. Here we extend the notion in a more general form where
COE is defined by \(COE_{+}\) which is the cost of energy needed to feed
the system, and \(COE_{-}\) which is the cost of waste energy that is
rejected, so,

\[COE_{+/-}=\frac{I_{E+/-}}{I_{2}}%\] Note that the \(COE_{+}\) is a
strictly decreasing function of \(I_{2}\) and \(COE_{-}\) is a strictly
increasing function of \(I_{2}\). This means that the cost of energy
needed for a unitary process decrease when \(I_{2}\) increases but, in
the same time the amount of waste always increases. There is therefore
no optimum to consider any minimization of the waste. In addition, it is
important to note that the \(R_{1}^{-1}=0\) configuration is the only
one that provides the strong coupling conditions, for which the energy
and matter currents are roughly proportional**StrongCoupling**. In this
case, the Onsager matrix has a zero determinant. This situation is an
idealization of the transport of energy entirely achieved by the
transport of matter. In other words, it is a question of considering
that the behavior of out-of-equilibrium thermodynamics may be
equivalently described by pure mechanics. This is obviously never fully
encountered unless it is considered that a \(\Delta
\Pi_{1}\) difference can persist without an associated current of matter
existing. This is the purpose of the following paragraph.

## Devices with non zero resting point

The study of devices with non zero resting points concern the case of
all systems for which a shutdown means death. Indeed, unlike a machine,
all living systems like are never totally shut down, and always keep a
minimum operating point , which we call basal, also known as a resting
point. This situation corresponds to the case where \(R_{1}\) has a
finite value. While remaining, for the moment in the case where
\(R_{2}=0\), we can develop the main results from this configuration.
The general equations of the system are given in Appendix
[9](#Appendix2). In this situation, the efficiency, nor the power, can
reach the previous values. At the resting point \(I_{2}=0\), the system
is in its basal configuration where \(P=0\), so \(I_{E+}=I_{E-}=B\)
with,

\[B=\frac{\Delta\Pi_{1}}{R_{+}+R_{1}+R_{-}}%\]

Regardless of the reduction in efficiency introduced by the presence of
\(R_{1}\), the search for a system with a very low basal point requires
to be located in a configuration close to Neumann conditions where
\(R_{+}\) and \(R_{-}\) have very large values. This is not problematic
except that it requires the system to operate at low values of
\(I_{2}\), in order to limit the dissipation due to the term \(R_{fb}\).
There is therefore a fundamental contradiction between having a system
with low resting power consumption and a system that can provide
significant power. It is clear that a sober system, in the sense of its
consumption at rest, is unsuited to the production of significant power,
without leading to significant dissipation at high speed, or
equivalently, high \(I_{2}\). If such a power is sought, then it implies
that the boundary conditions should be of Dirichlet like with
\(R_{+}\approx R_{-}%
\approx0\). But in this case the system will have a necessarily high
rest consumption. Compared to systems with a zero resting point, it can
be seen that the maximum power operating point and maximum efficiency
operating point tend to approach each other as \(R_{1}\) increases. In
this configuration the feedback resistance is approximately given by

\[R_{fb}\approx\frac{\alpha^{2}<\Pi_{1}>}{\frac{1}{R_{+}+R_{-}}+\frac{1}{R_{1}}%
}=R^{\ast}\alpha^{2}<\Pi_{1}>\] where
\(R^{\ast}=\frac{\left(  R_{+}+R_{-}\right)  R_{1}}{R_{1}+R_{+}+R_{-}}\).
Compared to the previous configuration the dissipation introduced by the
presence of \(R_{fb}\) can now be modified whatever are the boundary
conditions because \(R^{\ast}<Min(R_{+}+R_{-},R_{1})\). More precisely,
in the case of Neumann-like boundary conditions, there is a restriction
to the value of \(R_{1}\) where \(R_{1}<<R_{+}+R_{-}\) is
expected. Under Dirichlet-like boundary conditions \(R_{+}\)and
\(R_{-}\) are small so there is no condition on \(R_{1}\). Consequently,
a system with a very low basal point, with large values of both
\(R_{+}\), \(R_{-}\), Neumann like, and \(R_{1}\)will suffer from a
large \(R_{fb}\) and is then limited to very low \(I_{2}\) currents. If
the boundary conditions are more like Dirichlet conditions, then
\(R_{fb}\) keeps low but the low basal level now imposes that \(R_{1}\)
strongly increases, which reduced both the available power \(P\) and the
efficiency. So we can see that there is no room for a powerful and
efficient system working in all conditions. The main trade-off is
between power and efficiency, but it ultimately extends beyond that. The
typical response of systems with non zero resting points is given in the
figure [\[fig:with\_rest\]](#fig:with_rest). One can notice that the
general shape is not strongly modified from the case of zero resting
point configurations, except the presence of a non zero current of
energy even at zero \(I_{2}\) and a slight modification of the
short-circuit point.  

![Different representations of the powers \(I_{E+}\), \(I_{E-}\) and
\(P\), with \(R^{-1}_{1}=0.05\), \(R_{2}=0\), \(R_{+}
=R_{-}=2\), \(Pi_{1}^{S}=1\), \(Pi_{1}^{R}=30\). Figure \((a)\) shows
efficiencies (resp. in red and green) \(\eta_{+/-} = P /I_{2_{+/-}}\) in
function of \(I_2\) the current of matter. Figure \((b)\) is the
efficiency in function of the power produced \(P\). Figure \((c)\) show
the power (resp. in red, green and black) \(I_{E+}\), \(I_{E-}\) and
\(P\) in function of \(I_2\). Figure \((d)\) shows (resp. in red, green
and black) \(COE_{+/-}=I_{E_{+/-}}/I_2\) and \(COE_{P}=P/I_2\) in
function of \(I_2\). Dotted lines are \(\alpha=0.9\), solid lines are
\(\alpha=1\), dashed lines are \(\alpha=1.1\). In \((c)\) and \((d)\)
cyan stars show short circuit situations \(I_{2sc}\), yellow circles are
critical points \(I_{2cp}\). In \((b)\) vertical and horizontal red
lines are respectively maximal efficiency and maximal
power.](Puissances_1.pdf)

<span id="fig:with_rest" label="fig:with_rest">\[fig:with\_rest\]</span>

From a rather general point of view, the incoming energy current
\(I_{E+}\) makes it possible to establish and maintain, thanks to the
presence of \(R_{1}%\), a potential difference that permits the
production of output work. On this point we join the work of
Alicki**Alicki** who considers that the incoming energy current makes it
possible to maintain a difference in potential, exactly as a pump would
do. This situation is particularly described in the case of photovoltaic
structures, with a difference in electrochemical potential**Alicki**, or
in the case of muscles where the attachment and release cycles of actin
and myosin structures lead to the maintenance of a force**Huxley**. It
should be noted that, depending on the position of the resting point,
the power curve can intercept between zero and twice the \(I_{E+}\)
curve. It can therefore be seen that, in the case of systems with a
relatively low resting point, there may be an area for which the power
produced is greater than the power released as a waste. More intriguing,
this area can start with a non-zero value of \(I_{2}\). In other words,
there may be systems for which the situation \(I_{2}\neq0\) leads to a
proportionally smaller waste production than at rest. Systems with a
non-zero resting point therefore present very different optima than
non-living systems, whose zero resting point leads to minimizing power
by stopping the machine. By using the definition
\(COE_{-}=I_{E-}/I_{2}\) we can plot its response according to
\(I_{2}\). It should be noted that the \(COE-\) has a minimum value,
which does not coincide with the maximum power point. This defines a new
operating point for the system, which characterizes the situation where
the system minimizes its production of waste.  
An illustration of this can be given if we consider the motion of living
systems. Let us consider that the task to be accomplished consists in
moving the body over a unit distance, the question arises as to how fast
as possible this operation will lead to a minimum of waste, essentially
in the form of heat and metabolic degradation products. It is clear that
displacement here corresponds to the transport of matter, and is
therefore assimilated to \(I_{2}\) proportional to the speed of travel
as previously said. There is an abundant literature showing that there
exist a minimum of the so-called \(COT=COE_{-}\)
point(<span class="citeproc-not-found" data-reference-id="COT">**???**</span>)
for all animals for which movement appears to be favored when the COT is
minimal
(<span class="citeproc-not-found" data-reference-id="Hoyts">**???**</span>).
As expected in figure [\[Figure3\]](#Figure3), the \(COE_{-}\) and
\(COE+\) curves have a common point at the short circuit point. We
previously saw that Dirichlet’s conditions, \(R_{+}=R_{-}=0\), were
those that minimized the feedback resistance \(R_{fb}\) and allowed to
consider potentially a divergence of the current of matter and the
output power. This simple observation shows that strict Dirichlet’s
condition are simply nonphysical. Nevertheless, one can consider that
this condition can be approached. However, the presence of
\(R_{+}\),\(R_{-}\) and \(R_{1}\) in series, shows that Dirichlet’s
condition is asymptotically obtained only if the ratios \(R_{+}/R_{1}\)
and \(R_{-}/R_{1}\) are negligible, which imposes an important value for
\(R_{1}\), and therefore a high value of the basal power. We therefore
see the emergence of a paradox which, seeking to minimize the
dissipation due to \(R_{fb}\) leads to the constraint of high
consumption at rest. The same system cannot therefore be both very
powerful and very energy-efficient at its resting point. We find here
the generalization of a well-known situation, for example for the
thermal engines of vehicles, in which the engine’s displacement
determines its ability to produce power, as well as its efficiency..

## Internal dissipation devices

Let us now consider the introduction of the dissipative term \(R_{2}\).
The output power of the system is now represented by the figure
[\[fig:with\_dissipation\]](#fig:with_dissipation).

![Different representations of the powers \(I_{E+}\), \(I_{E-}\) and
\(P\), with \(R^{-1}_{1}=0.05\), \(R_{2}=4\), \(R_{+}
    =R_{-}=2\), \(Pi_{1}^{S}=1\), \(Pi_{1}^{R}=30\). Figure \((a)\)
shows efficiencies (resp. in red and green)
\(\eta_{+/-} = P /I_{2_{+/-}}\) in function of \(I_2\) the current of
matter. Figure \((b)\) is the efficiency in function of the power
produced \(P\). Figure \((c)\) show the power (resp. in red, green and
black) \(I_{E+}\), \(I_{E-}\) and \(P\) in function of \(I_2\). Figure
\((d)\) shows (resp. in red, green and black)
\(COE_{+/-}=I_{E_{+/-}}/I_2\) and \(COE_{P}=P/I_2\) in function of
\(I_2\). Dotted lines are \(\alpha=0.9\), solid lines are \(\alpha=1\),
dashed lines are \(\alpha=1.1\). In \((c)\) and \((d)\) cyan stars show
short circuit situations \(I_{2sc}\), yellow circles are critical points
\(I_{2cp}\). In \((b)\) vertical and horizontal red lines are
respectively maximal efficiency and maximal power.](Puissances_0.pdf)

<span id="fig:with_dissipation" label="fig:with_dissipation">\[fig:with\_dissipation\]</span>

As a thermodynamic engine the system provides a power
\(P=\alpha\left(  \Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\right)  I_{2}\) as already
defined. The efficiency of this part of the system is given by
\(\eta_{2}=\frac
{P-R_{2}I_{2}^{2}}{P}\). So the total efficiency of the system  is
\[\eta_{sys}=\eta_{1}\eta_{2}%\]

with \(\eta_{1}=\frac{P}{I_{E_+}}\). Compared to the previous
configurations, both the power, the short-circuit current \(I_{sc}\) and
the efficiency are now reduced. The influence of \(R_{2}\) appears to be
always detrimental, which was not the case for \(R_{1}\). It is clear
that one should look for minimal \(R_{2}\) if possible. In other words,
in the expression of the figure of merit there is a constraint on
\(R_{2}\). At first, both \(\alpha\) and \(R_{1}\) seems to be non
constrained, and the same figure of merit can be obtained for various
values of the couple \((\alpha,R_{1})\). Nevertheless, as we have
mentioned, the present description shows that \(R_{2}\) is linked in
series with \(R_{fb}\). Consequently, the constraint on \(R_{2}\) can be
relaxed to the condition \(R_{2}<<R_{fb}%\). According to the expression
\(R_{fb}\approx\frac{\alpha^{2}<\Pi_{1}>}%
{\frac{1}{R_{+}+R_{-}}+\frac{1}{R_{1}}}\)  this leads to the condition
\(1+\frac{R_{1}}{R_{\Sigma}}<\frac{\alpha^{2}R_{1}}{R_{2}}<\Pi_{1}>\)
where we recognize the figure of merit, so the condition becomes

\[1+\frac{R_{1}}{R_{\Sigma}}<F_{m}%\]

where \(R_{\Sigma}=R_{+}+R_{-}\). According to the previous observation,
the minimization of the dissipation occurring from the \(R_{fb}\) term
imposes that \(\frac{R_{1}}{R_{\Sigma}}\) should be large enough. So we
now get a supplementary condition for \(F_{m}\). In this expression the
boundary conditions and the intrinsic performances of the device are
considered together. Under Dirichlet conditions,
\(1+\frac{R_{1}}{R_{\Sigma}}\) diverges so the system keeps its level of
dissipation low only in the case of very large figure of merit, and is
forced to work at very low \(I_{2}\) values. Under Neumann conditions,
\(R_{\Sigma}\) diverges and then the condition on the figure of merit is
then relaxed. Ideally, even when achieved asymptotically, one might want
to achieve maximum power, as well as minimal waste production, combined
with maximum efficiency. It must be concluded that the quest for maximum
efficiency always leads to approaching the Carnot point, which is, even
in an out-of-equilibrium description, the point where power is canceled
out.

# Entropic point of view

The previous power budget analysis highlighted three classes of systems:
systems with a zero resting point, systems with a non-zero resting
point, and finally, systems with an additional internal dissipation term
\(R_{2}\). Let us consider these three classes again from the entropic
point of view.

## Devices with zero resting point

The production of entropy from the presence of \(R_{-}\) and \(R_{+}\)
is given respectively at both sides of the device by

\[\overset{.}{S}_{E+}=I_{E+}\left(  \frac{1}{\Pi_{1}^{+}}-\frac{1}{\Pi_{1}^{R}}\right)  =\frac{\alpha^{2}I_{2}^{2}R_{+}}{1+\alpha I_{2}R_{+}}%\]

\[\overset{.}{S}_{E-}=I_{E-}\left(  \frac{1}{\Pi_{1}^{S}}-\frac{1}{\Pi
    _{1}^{-}}\right)  =\frac{\alpha^{2}I_{2}^{2}R_{-}}{1-\alpha I_{2}R_{-}}%\]

![Evaluation of the entropy production with the same configuration as in
Fig. [\[SansReposEnergie\]](#SansReposEnergie), \(R^{-1}_{1}=0\),
\(R_{2}=0\), \(R_{+}=R_{-}=2\), \(Pi_{1}^{S}=1\), \(Pi_{1}^{R}=30\).
Figure \((a)\) shows \(\dot{S}_{E+}\) and figure \((b)\) shows
\(\dot{S}_{E-}\), both in function of \(I_2\) the current of matter.
Same color and linestyle code as in
Fig. [\[SansReposEnergie\]](#SansReposEnergie)](entropies_2.pdf)

<span id="fig:sprod_no_rest" label="fig:sprod_no_rest">\[fig:sprod\_no\_rest\]</span>

There is clearly an asymmetry in the two entropy productions. Indeed, if
the two contributions initially increase quadratically with the current
of matter, the contribution of the resource side,
\(\overset{.}{S}_{E+}\), tends to a linear progression independent of
the coupling condition \(R_{+}\) while the contribution on the waste
rejection side \(\overset{.}{S}_{E-}\) tends to diverge as soon as
\(I_{2}\approx1/\alpha R_{-}\). It is surprising to see that, in
addition, this divergence is more marked as the coupling factor
\(\alpha\) between energy and matter is important. There is therefore no
other solution than to make \(R_{-}\) as small as possible, and
therefore to have an opportunity for waste disposal that is not
prevented. This is an additional constraint for the design of performant
systems.

## Devices with non-zero resting point

Let’s now look at the case of non-zero resting point systems, while
keeping \(R_{2}\approx0\). In this case the general expressions become,

\[\overset{.}{S}_{E+}=\frac{I_{E+}}{\Pi_{1}^{+}}-\frac{I_{E+}}{\Pi_{1}%
    ^{R}}=\frac{R_{+}I_{E+}^{2}}{\left(  \Pi_{1}^{R}-R_{+}I_{E+}\right)  \Pi
    _{1}^{R}}%\]

\[\overset{.}{S}_{E-}=I_{E-}\left(  \frac{1}{\Pi_{1}^{S}}-\frac{1}{\Pi
    _{1}^{-}}\right)  =\frac{R_{-}I_{E-}^{2}}{\left(  R_{-}I_{E-}+\Pi_{1}%
    ^{S}\right)  \Pi_{1}^{S}}%\]

![Evaluation of the entropy production with the same configuration as in
Fig. [\[fig:with\_rest\]](#fig:with_rest) with \(R^{-1}_{1}=0.05\),
\(R_{2}=0\), \(R_{+}=R_{-}=2\), \(Pi_{1}^{S}=1\), \(Pi_{1}^{R}=30\).
Figure \((a)\) shows \(\dot{S}_{E+}\) and figure \((b)\) shows
\(\dot{S}_{E-}\), both in function of \(I_2\) the current of matter.
Same color and linestyle code as in
Fig. [\[SansReposEnergie\]](#SansReposEnergie) ](entropies_1.pdf)

<span id="fig:sprod_with_rest" label="fig:sprod_with_rest">\[fig:sprod\_with\_rest\]</span>

with \(I_{E+}\) and \(I_{E-}\) defined according to the Appendix
[9](#Appendix2). We can see that the presence of \(R_{1}\) reintroduces
a significant symmetry between the two contributions to the entropy
production. Moreover, the question of the importance of the quality of
the coupling on the resource side, by minimizing \(R_{+}\), or to the
rejection side, by minimizing \(R_{-}\), is now of equal importance.

## Internal dissipation devices

For internally dissipated devices, the term \(R_{2}\) produces a
quadratic dissipation \(R_{2}I_{2}^{2}\). We have seen before that
the presence of \(R_{2}\) never brings any advantage in terms of energy
conversion since it only contributes to lowering the power available at
the output of the system. As this dissipation diffuses into the system,
it is itself a source of entropy. At this stage, it is important to know
how this dissipation occurs. In the case of some thermal systems, an
analytical calculation can be carried out that leads to an equal
distribution of this dissipation between the resource and the sink, i.e.
\(\varphi=0.5\), in accordance with
**HalfJouleThermoelec**[9](#Appendix2). In other systems, such as
muscles subjected to moderate stress, this dissipation is considered to
be completely rejected into the sink \((\varphi=0)\) (Goupil et al.
2019). For some living systems, including homeothermic species, it is
likely that a fraction of this dissipation is partially released, and
partially used to maintain the central temperature of the body, leading
to a value \(\varphi\approx1\), depending on outdoor conditions. One
example is the case of vasodilation and vasoconstriction of peripheral
vessels, which is a solution for modulating the value of \(R_{-}\) and
consequently reject less, or more, heat outside of the body.

![Evaluation of the entropy production with the same configuration as in
Fig. [\[fig:with\_dissipation\]](#fig:with_dissipation) with
\(R^{-1}_{1}=0.05\), \(R_{2}=4\), \(R_{+}=R_{-}=2\), \(Pi_{1}^{S}=1\),
\(Pi_{1}^{R}=30\). Figure \((a)\) shows \(\dot{S}_{E+}\) and figure
\((b)\) shows \(\dot{S}_{E-}\), both in function of \(I_2\) the current
of matter. Same color and linestyle code as in
Fig. [\[SansReposEnergie\]](#SansReposEnergie) ](entropies_0.pdf)

<span id="fig:sprod_with_dissipation" label="fig:sprod_with_dissipation">\[fig:sprod\_with\_dissipation\]</span>

# Adaptable or adapted?

The study of the behavior of a generic system composed of a conversion
device, and the boundary conditions to the reservoirs, now allows us to
establish several observations. First, the search for the most
performant device, in terms of power and efficiency, can be summarized
by the search for the largest figure of merit \(F_{m}\). However, this
result must be modulated by the fact that the value of \(F_{m}\) is
determined by the set of the three parameters \(R_{1}\),\(R_{2}\) and
\(\alpha\) which, at this stage, do not present any constraints. In
addition, few thermodynamic devices have a single operating point, but
are generally expected to operate over a wide range of uses, that
principally means large range of \(I_{2}\). In the precedent paragraph
we concluded that the greater the figure of merit the smaller the
effective operating range becomes. Indeed, for such a narrow range, the
users must then conform quite strictly to that imposed by the value of
the figure of merit of the device. This observation explains quite
simply why the consumption observed by vehicle drivers is always larger
than that reported by vehicle manufacturers, since the actual conditions
of use never coincide with the test conditions. Similarly, the measured
performance of equipment in dwellings, as well as the performance of the
dwellings themselves, is below the expected performance during
construction. This observation leads to the recommendation that devices
intended to operate over a wide range of uses should not be designed
solely on the basis of their maximum performance in terms of efficiency
and power. Beyond this observation, the question arises of determining,
within a system, which of the three parameters \(R_{1}\),\(R_{2}\) and
\(\alpha\) should be optimized as a priority. We can first conclude
that, unless situations where dissipation is explicitly sought,
\(R_{2}\) must be systematically minimized. With regard to \(R_{1}\), we
have seen that its choice determines two categories of systems,
depending on whether \(R_{1}\) is zero or not. In the first category,
where \(R_{1}=0\), the operating range of the system are limited by the
feedback effects that introduce an excess dissipation term \(R_{fb}\).
This term can be minimized if the boundary conditions are as close as
possible to Dirichlet conditions. In this situation, the currents of
matter \(I_{2}\) and energy \(I_{E}\) may diverge. This situation has
been that of our societies since the beginning of the industrial
revolution, with coal, followed by an acceleration after the Second
World War, due to the rise in oil consumption. The divergence of matter
and energy currents is directly linked to an increase in the figure of
merit, through an increased facilitation of the circulation of matters
and energies, which is produced by a minimization of \(R_{2}\), as well
as an increase of \(\alpha\), i.e. technological progress that allows
thermodynamic potentials to be more strongly coupled. A basic
illustration of this increase is the performance of steam machines,
which have gradually increased the ratio between outlet pressures and
inlet
temperatures(<span class="citeproc-not-found" data-reference-id="jevons_coal_1865">**???**</span>).
The second category of system concerns the case where \(R_{1}\neq0\).
These systems are particular in that they consume energy, even in a
resting situation. We can include living organisms and societies, but
also machines, when the latter operate at idle, with no other power
production than the maintenance of this idle. We have seen that in this
case there are two categories of systems depending on whether we favor
power production or low consumption at rest. These two categories are
resolutely distinct and it is illusory to think of a system capable of
producing a very high power, while maintaining a very low basic
consumption. The choice of \(R_{1}\), i. e. from dissipation at rest, is
also decisive in the dissipation produced by feedback. The issues of
minimization or maximization of efficiency and power are therefore part
of a much broader framework than initially thought.

# Discussion and conclusion

We proposed a generic thermodynamic system model that allows to consider
several situations of coupling of the energy and matter currents, as
well as their conversions. At the local level, the intrinsic performance
of the device that constitutes the core of the system was studied. It
appears that the best intrinsic performance in terms of power and
efficiency is obtained for the devices with the largest figure of merit,
without specifying the respective contributions of the conductivities
associated with the transport of energy or matter. However, the
sensitivity of these devices to changes in the reduced current \(j\)
shows that the intrinsically most efficient devices are also the most
constraining because they require precise control of this reduced
current, and therefore of energy and matter currents. At the scale of a
complete system, the coupling to the external environment very strongly
modifies the conclusions compared to the observations made at the local
level. It is observed that behavior is mainly governed by the boundary
conditions that connect the local system to the resource and the waste.
The presence of boundary conditions such as Dirichlet or Neumann leads
to a wide variety of behaviors. The ideal Dirichlet conditions are the
only ones that do not lead to any feedback, and consequently, and
conduct to the absence of limitations for the energy and matter
currents. When the boundary conditions are between Dirichlet and
Neumann, then many possibilities arise. The presence or absence of a
resting point for the system strongly influences these possibilities in
terms of power but also in terms of waste production associated with the
completion of a task. The concept of coefficient of energy cost,
\(COE,\) is introduced, generalizing the classical \(COT\) already
established for biological systems. Finally it is observed that the
internal dissipation produced by the presence of \(R_{2}\) is always
detrimental for both the efficiency and the power. Its only positive
contribution is limited to cases where dissipation and entropy
production are explicitly sought, as in the case of homeothermic
animals.

**Dans ce paragraphe; il faut qu’on remette point par point,(i, ii, iii,
iiii...) les résultats obtenus sur les contraintes et leurs
conséquences, bref un rateau qui ramasse les feuilles qu’on a fait
tomber en secouant l’arbre du modèle.**

# 

We consider the set of the four equations [\[Quatre\]](#Quatre)
\[\begin{aligned}
I_{E-}  &  =\alpha\Pi_{1}^{-}I_{2}+\left(  1-\varphi\right)  R_{2}I_{2}%
^{2}+\frac{\left(  \Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\right)  }{R_{1}}\\
I_{E-}  &  =\frac{(\Pi_{1}^{-}-\Pi_{1}^{S})}{R_{-}}\\
I_{E+}  &  =\alpha\Pi_{1}^{+}I_{2}-\varphi R_{2}I_{2}^{2}+\frac{\left(
    \Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}\right)  }{R_{1}}\\
I_{E+}  &  =\frac{(\Pi_{1}^{R}-\Pi_{1}^{+})}{R_{+}}%\end{aligned}\]

The \(\varphi\) term defines the fraction of the waste which is
respectively rejected to the source and to the sink. This is a well
known parameter in some thermal engines **AppertetBienChoisi**. In the
case of living system, \(\varphi\) may define the ratio of heat rejected
outside of the body and kept inside.

The resolution of the four equations gives,

\[\left(
\begin{array}
[c]{c}%
\Pi_{1}^{-}\\
\Pi_{1}^{+}%
\end{array}
\right)  =\frac{1}{AD-BC}\left(
\begin{array}
[c]{cc}%
D & -B\\
-C & A
\end{array}
\right)  \left(
\begin{array}
[c]{c}%
\Pi_{1}^{S}+\left(  1-\varphi\right)  R_{-}R_{2}I^{2}\\
\Pi_{1}^{R}+\varphi R_{+}R_{2}I^{2}%
\end{array}
\right)\]

with \[\begin{aligned}
A  &  =1-\alpha R_{-}I+\frac{R_{-}}{R_{1}}\\
B  &  =-\frac{R_{-}}{R_{1}}\\
C  &  =-\frac{R_{+}}{R_{1}}\\
D  &  =\alpha R_{+}I+\frac{R_{+}}{R_{1}}+1\end{aligned}\]

# 

In the case of a system without dissipation, \(R_{2}\)=0, the general
equations become

\[\begin{aligned}
I_{E-}  &  =\alpha\Pi_{1}^{-}I_{2}+\frac{\Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}}{R_{1}}\\
\Pi_{1}^{-}  &  =R_{-}I_{E-}+\Pi_{1}^{S}\\
I_{E+}  &  =\alpha\Pi_{1}^{+}I_{2}+\frac{\Pi_{1}^{+}-\Pi_{1}^{-}}{R_{1}}\\
\Pi_{1}^{+}  &  =\Pi_{1}^{R}-R_{+}I_{E+}%\end{aligned}\]

Which leads to,

\[\begin{aligned}
I_{E+}  &  =\frac{\alpha I_{2}\frac{R_{1}}{R_{+}}\Pi_{1}^{S}+\frac{\Delta
        \Pi_{1}}{R_{+}}+\alpha AI_{2}\frac{R_{1}}{R_{-}}\Pi_{1}^{R}+A\frac{\Delta
        \Pi_{1}}{R_{-}}}{1+AB}\\
I_{E-}  &  =\frac{\alpha I_{2}\frac{R_{1}}{R_{-}}\Pi_{1}^{R}+\frac{\Delta
        \Pi_{1}}{R_{-}}-\alpha BI_{2}\frac{R_{1}}{R_{+}}\Pi_{1}^{S}-B\frac{\Delta
        \Pi_{1}}{R_{+}}}{1+AB}%\end{aligned}\]

with,

\[\begin{aligned}
A  &  =\left(  \alpha I_{2}R_{1}\frac{R_{-}}{R_{+}}-\frac{R_{1}}{R_{+}}%
-\frac{R_{-}}{R_{+}}\right) \\
B  &  =\left(  \alpha I_{2}R_{1}\frac{R_{+}}{R_{-}}+\frac{R_{+}}{R_{-}}%
+\frac{R_{1}}{R_{-}}\right)\end{aligned}\]

<div id="refs" class="references hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-alicki_thermodynamic_2017">

Alicki, Robert, David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, and Alejandro Jenkins. 2017.
“A Thermodynamic Cycle for the Solar Cell.” *Annals of Physics* 378
(March): 71–87. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aop.2017.01.003>.

</div>

<div id="ref-alicki_thermodynamics_2004">

Alicki, Robert, Michał Horodecki, Paweł Horodecki, and Ryszard
Horodecki. 2004. “Thermodynamics of Quantum Information Systems —
Hamiltonian Description.” *Open Systems & Information Dynamics* 11 (3):
205–17. <https://doi.org/10.1023/B:OPSY.0000047566.72717.71>.

</div>

<div id="ref-apertet_irreversibilities_2012">

Apertet, Y., H. Ouerdane, C. Goupil, and Ph. Lecoeur. 2012.
“Irreversibilities and Efficiency at Maximum Power of Heat Engines:
The Illustrative Case of a Thermoelectric Generator.” *Physical Review
E* 85 (3): 031116. <https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.85.031116>.

</div>

<div id="ref-balachandran_efficiency_2013">

Balachandran, Vinitha, Giuliano Benenti, and Giulio Casati. 2013.
“Efficiency of Three-Terminal Thermoelectric Transport Under Broken
Time-Reversal Symmetry.” *Physical Review B* 87 (16): 165419.
<https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.87.165419>.

</div>

<div id="ref-benenti_thermoelectric_2016">

Benenti, Giuliano, Henni Ouerdane, and Christophe Goupil. 2016. “The
Thermoelectric Working Fluid: Thermodynamics and Transport.” *Comptes
Rendus Physique*, Mesoscopic thermoelectric phenomena / phénomènes
thermoélectriques mésoscopiques, 17 (10): 1072–83.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crhy.2016.08.004>.

</div>

<div id="ref-curzon_efficiency_1975">

Curzon, F. L., and B. Ahlborn. 1975. “Efficiency of a Carnot Engine at
Maximum Power Output.” *American Journal of Physics* 43 (1): 22–24.
<https://doi.org/10.1119/1.10023>.

</div>

<div id="ref-esposito_universality_2009">

Esposito, Massimiliano, Katja Lindenberg, and Christian Van den Broeck.
2009. “Universality of Efficiency at Maximum Power.” *Physical Review
Letters* 102 (13): 130602.
<https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.102.130602>.

</div>

<div id="ref-esposito_thermoelectric_2009">

Esposito, M., K. Lindenberg, and C. Van den Broeck. 2009.
“Thermoelectric Efficiency at Maximum Power in a Quantum Dot.” *EPL
(Europhysics Letters)* 85 (6): 60010.
<https://doi.org/10.1209/0295-5075/85/60010>.

</div>

<div id="ref-goupil_thermodynamics_2019">

Goupil, Christophe, Henni Ouerdane, Eric Herbert, Clémence Goupil, and
Yves D’Angelo. 2019. “Thermodynamics of Metabolic Energy Conversion
Under Muscle Load.” *New Journal of Physics* 21 (2): 023021.
<https://doi.org/10.1088/1367-2630/ab0223>.

</div>

<div id="ref-goupil_thermodynamics_2011">

Goupil, Christophe, Wolfgang Seifert, Knud Zabrocki, Eckhart Müller, and
G. Jeffrey Snyder. 2011. “Thermodynamics of Thermoelectric Phenomena and
Applications.” *Entropy* 13 (8): 1481–1517.
<https://doi.org/10.3390/e13081481>.

</div>

<div id="ref-jr_entropy_2008">

Jr, Walter T. Grandy. 2008. *Entropy and the Time Evolution of
Macroscopic Systems*. OUP Oxford.

</div>

<div id="ref-kedem_degree_1965">

Kedem, O., and S. R. Caplan. 1965. “Degree of Coupling and Its Relation
to Efficiency of Energy Conversion.” *Transactions of the Faraday
Society* 61 (0): 1897–1911. <https://doi.org/10.1039/TF9656101897>.

</div>

<div id="ref-klein_principle_1954">

Klein, Martin J., and Paul H. E. Meijer. 1954. “Principle of Minimum
Entropy Production.” *Physical Review* 96 (2): 250–55.
<https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRev.96.250>.

</div>

<div id="ref-kondepudi_entropy_2008">

Kondepudi, Dilip, and Lauren Kapcha. 2008. “Entropy Production in Chiral
Symmetry Breaking Transitions.” *Chirality* 20 (3): 524–28.
<https://doi.org/10.1002/chir.20492>.

</div>

<div id="ref-lebon_understanding_2008">

Lebon, Georgy, David Jou, and José Casas-Vázquez. 2008. *Understanding
Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics: Foundations, Applications, Frontiers*.
Berlin: Springer.

</div>

<div id="ref-martyushev_maximum_2006">

Martyushev, L. M., and V. D. Seleznev. 2006. “Maximum Entropy Production
Principle in Physics, Chemistry and Biology.” *Physics Reports* 426 (1):
1–45. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physrep.2005.12.001>.

</div>

<div id="ref-novikov_efficiency_1958">

Novikov, I. I. 1958. “The Efficiency of Atomic Power Stations (a
Review).” *Journal of Nuclear Energy (1954)* 7 (1): 125–28.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/0891-3919(58)90244-4>.

</div>

</div>
